[Music]
hello guys and welcome to my channel
today we are going to discuss the best
university of the world Harvard
University and we're going to talk about
how to get into Harvard because if you
look at any university in ranking say US
news.com or top universities comm you
would definitely see Harvard
top three top five universities which
means for you that it's not only the
best university of the world it's also
one of the hardest to get into and it
will look at the acceptance rate of 2016
only 5% of applicants got into Harvard
which means that if 20 people of life
only one would get it and you need to
understand that Harvard application
process needs to be taken seriously so
if you want to start your study say
September 2018 then you need to submit
your application by November 1st 2017
and this is for freshman applicants for
bachelors programs if we're talking
about masters programs or MBA this
deadline can be even earlier so if we're
talking about MBA you need to apply it
one year before the start of your
studies so say if you want to sorry I
made 10 for 2018 you need to apply in
September 2017 and let's dive a little
in the application itself now the first
thing you need to remember is that if
you're applying to Harvard you also need
to apply to around five other
universities because the percentage the
acceptance rate is so long that even if
you're super talented and exceptional
person this statistical probability so
low that you might not get accepted and
you don't want to end up you know just
applying to Harvard and ended up ending
up not being accepted and just spend
another year in applications or working
somewhere so I would say diversify your
portfolio of the universities you're
planning to have to top schools to
middle schools and to safety schools now
how does the application look like the
application self would ask you questions
about your address your parents jobs
your school your hobbies your volunteer
projects your prizes
so everything another thing you need to
remember is that there is an application
fee $75 or more depending on the program
and sometimes they give exceptions
sometimes they waive with this
application fee but you have to be
eligible which means sometimes that you
have to be valid for a military or you
have to be late ofamerican so really
every university has some guidelines so
I would say the it's very likely that
you would end up paying this to $75 fee
and if you plan to a lot of universities
this summer really add up so make sure
you're planning your budget as well and
another very important thing is that you
need to take SATs and not only SAT
general or you can take a CT general
which is a similar exam but it's very
likely that you would need to take two
SAT subjects so for example SAT physics
or SAT Math and you would need to have
your results by November first
so November 1st is the first priority
deadline when you really need to apply
it and you need to apply in the first
part of the deadline because the class
is empty and the quotas are not filled
and Harvard has quotas for different
backgrounds different nationalities and
if you apply later it may appear that
the quota for your type of student is
already filled up and you're going to be
missed out so really apply during the
first deadline so by November 1st you
need to have taken all of your SATs your
application should be filled
your fee should be paid other things
that you need to provide Harvard with is
your secondary school transcript and
your meteor or because you will still be
in the process of finishing your high
school so you would need to have your
first reports from your last year
another thing you need to provide
Harvard with is recommendation letters
from your teachers and they should be
teachers that you really work with
closely not like a teacher who would
come in one so we can teach you
something in this go bad but maybe
somebody who advises you or who you have
a really close connection with because
it's really important that those
recommendation letters are very personal
and that if a student of sorry if a
teacher tells that you're a very
hardworking student then you should have
several examples like Oh last week when
he founded this math system I saw him
studying 20 hours a day whatever I'm
just making this out but just to you
know that you guys have an idea what a
recommendation letter should look like
and when we're getting to a personal
statement also guys make sure that
you're not writing you know just a
letter that you would send out to a lot
of universities just you know this
template it should be very personal for
every University as well because every
University has its mission and make sure
you include it in your letter and state
that this mission aligns with your
mission and with your goals like and
make sure you're telling some stories
the universities could only find out
from your motivation letter because they
will have your application they would
know all of your results from tests they
would know of your accomplishments but
the thing they wouldn't know is
something that makes you you like your
stories your things that happened to you
and they make you special also if you're
an international student you would need
to provide your language exam which
could be TOEFL or IELTS and there's
so very high grade that Harvard requires
to make sure you start preparing for
TOEFL like six months prior to
application deadline and the last but
not the least depending on your program
you can be invited to the interview it
can be one on one interview when you
travel to Boston Cambridge or it can be
conducted via Skype if you don't have
means to travel to Harvard so yeah and
let me take you on a tour I just came
back from Harvard and you guys need to
see this campus with your own eyes
another day in Boston and not a
university welcome to Harvard this is
wall of faders of Harvard students let's
see I have three B minuses in my report
card I dropped out of Harvard
I haven't got a job yet I didn't get any
consulting internships this year I
stopped believing in myself I was
rejected from 40 jobs
welcome to the wall waiters I think this
is a pretty cool idea to have such a
wall because when you're looking at you
know talking to other people in your
real life nobody would really share
their failures but you should understand
that everybody has difficulties
everybody has problems every day of
their lives and you're not the only one
struggling and when you read about those
problems you're like ah maybe I'm still
not that bad so I like the idea he's
probably the founder his last name is
Harvard
Oh founder exactly John Harvard founder
of the Harvard University this part of
the space really reminds me of the UK
because actually Boston is where the
United States started and people who
came over from England
they brought this British architecture
small nice buildings kilogram is still
like the UK resembles Oxford I would say
guys I came to the souvenir shop at
Harvard and the plan is to get a hat
from Harvard a sweatshirt from MIT and
pants from Stanford you know there's no
way no need to study there is just get
all the gear and pretend you're right I
don't that was so funny but yeah I
really wanted to get something so we'll
see what they have here
23 bucks my dear so like your average
hat from Harvard so there's a 90 percent
markup purchase number one done
Harvard hat now I need to get a
sweatshirt program I see and fans from
Stanford this is the entrance to Harvard
Extension school and the extension
school is something everybody can do so
if you want to do you know
specialization in some particular field
you can take some courses and marketing
or management or whatever you like in
Harvard but this wouldn't be like a
typical master's a bachelor's degree you
would just take up courses that you need
it's called certificate program or you
can do like congratulatory and in order
to get in there are different so it's
easier to get in then to Harvard itself
what you need to do is you need to pass
total so proof or if you're American you
don't have to do that and you need to
take at least three courses at Harvard
Extension school and have a certain GPA
and get 3.0 out of four in order to
qualify to continue so it's pretty easy
it doesn't cost a lot of money it's
still expensive I think in order to get
this certificate in something you would
need to spend around twelve thousand
dollars but it's cheaper than getting
into Greenstar in Harvard and it's
easier to get in so if you guys
interested research Harvard Extension
school and it's a really nice building
it's still Harvard still the same
territory
the same facilities library like
everything you get access to everything
the only thing if you're international I
think that they don't do that one reason
so you will need to come on a tourist
visa or take some classes on
so be careful with that I just started
editing the videos for you guys about
Harvard and then I realized I haven't
answered a question that I get asked a
lot during the consultations and the
question is um do you need to graduate
from an American high school to get into
Harvard so the answer is no you don't
have to do that and actually if you
graduate from the high school in your
home country the chances of you having
higher grades is better because it's
easier to graduate from your school that
you know where subjects that go to your
native language at this may give you an
advantage but if you don't have this
American experience if you've never been
to the States if you don't know how to
sell yourself if you don't know how to
present yourself if you've never
interacted with a real American that
could be a problem and that put
effective chances of getting accepted
because of the way you submit your
application because of you of the way
you read your motivational letter you
pass the interview so if you have a
chance to go to America for at least two
weeks to language core to language camp
that would be an awesome opportunity for
you I will leave a couple of links below
so you can check out how much it costs
it's not like a really cheap activity
but then Harvard is also not a cheap
activity so I would really advise you
guys to spend a couple of weeks or three
weeks in the States before the year of
your application so you could brush up
your language skills and get into this
American environment okay thank you guys
for watching this video I hope you
enjoyed it I hope I motivated some of
you to apply to one of top american
universities and it gave you the idea
how the application process looks like
so believe in yourself uh you don't have
to be super outstanding super talented
just have to be a great student with
some achievements and proof that you're
really interested in continuing your
studies at harvard thank you so much so
much guys for watching this don't forget
to subscribe don't forget to like
I'll see you the next videos bye
[Music]
you